Senior Risk Modelling Analyst
Salary: £40,000- £45,000 per annum - plus annual performance bonus & benefits.
 
We are Together - Proud to be a Financial Services success story based in South Manchester. Established in 1974, we employ over 600 colleagues.
A specialist lender offering a range of mortgage and secured loan products to individuals and businesses, who are typically underserved by mainstream lenders. We play our part to turn challenges into opportunities which make our customers' financial ambitions accessible.
Over 47 years of successful trading has positioned Together as a market leader, thanks to a common-sense approach to lending.
Together is a business that never stands still, providing an exciting place to work for individuals who deliver to a high-standard and embrace change. 
We understand that for our business to grow, our people must grow.
 
The Senior Risk Modelling Analyst is responsible for developing our monitoring, reporting and modelling capabilities. You will also be responsible for supporting the Risk Modelling Manager in developing predictive models to support the growth of the business.
 
Job Description
·       Production and ongoing enhancement of model risk reporting and analysis
·       Timely and accurate monthly and quarterly analysis and updates to Risk committees
·       Pro-actively identify trends and insights based on regular model risk reporting.
·       Supporting the Risk Modelling Manager in addressing areas of concern
·       Work with finance and other parts of the business to analyse and understand key changes in the portfolio and impact they may have had on the Expected Credit Loss in the month
·       Improving modelling approach for the IFRS 9 credit risk models
·       Take ownership of the development loans IFRS 9 model, including scorecard and model improvement
·       Working with the Risk Modelling manager in order to develop predictive models and establish a robust control framework for all models
·       Maintain comprehensive governance, procedures and records
 
Qualifications
Essential
·       Numerical degree, strong analytical skills and excellent attention to detail
·       The ability to identify trends and interpret data from multiple sources and investigate anomalies and unusual patterns / activities
·       Experience with model development
·       A solid grounding in data analysis using quantitative analytic tools
·       Good Excel skills
·       Relevant coding experience (SQL/R or equivalent)
·       Experience of using complex data
Desirable
·       Experience in a complex Financial Services organisation
·       IFRS 9 background
·       Creative and inquisitive mind-set
 
﻿Additional information
We offer a range of company benefits, including 25 days holiday which can be flexed up/down, pension, life assurance, critical illness cover, health cash plan, private medical insurance, regular team/individual incentives, travel season ticket loans, Ride to Work scheme, free gym access and local bar/restaurant discounts.
 
Career development opportunities are excellent and where appropriate we offer sponsorship of relevant qualifications.
